>> Hello, everyone out there on YouTube. Hello, crew. So awesome to have you all here. If
you've got questions, comments, put them in the live chat. And with that, let's just go
ahead and kick this off. Hey, all, welcome to Talk Python To Me. Gareth, Kim, Lukasz,
Cecil, Emily, and Dan. I've got a bunch of you here, and I'm so excited to have you all
on the show. Thanks for being here. >> Sure thing.
thing. Yeah, I'm excited, man. We have a nice little party going on. Yeah, we do. We definitely
do. Multicontinent. Yeah. So I'm really excited to talk about choosing technology, choosing
libraries for programming, or maybe a database that we might use for a project. We have this
paradox of choice type of problem, and especially in the Python space. I haven't even looked.
Are we over 400,000 packages on PyPI?
There's many, right?
- We are over 14 terabytes of storage on PyPI, that I know.
- Oh my goodness.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
- A lot.
- All right, so-
- It's mostly machine learning,
but you know, there's a lot of packages.
- Yeah, there's definitely a lot of packages.
Okay, well, how do you pick?
How do you go to that list and say,
I'm going to search for a web framework.
And look, there's 100 results.
How do I pick?
Or I'm going to find a way to talk to a database.
What database should it be?
So that's going to be our topic for the show today.
And let's just start real quick with the elevator pitch
of who you are and your background.
30 seconds or less, we'll go around the Brady Bunch
squares here.
Gareth?
- Hi, I'm Gareth.
I've been programming for probably 40 years, I guess, now,
because I started when I was about three.
I'm on a Dragon 64,
but it was only recently I got into Python, really,
when I took up a job as a CTO of a company
that did everything in Python and haven't looked back.
And now I'm doing CTO stuff all the time.
- Fantastic.
I think CTO positions are very much in this role.
You've got to set a little bit of guidance
for the company and the teams, right?
- Yes, and I don't get to do code anymore,
I just get to watch people write code.
- You just get to make decisions for them
and watch whether they enjoy it or don't enjoy it.
Kim, welcome back.
- Thanks, Mike.
I must be roughly the same age as Gareth,
but I have been writing code for probably about 25 years,
'cause I didn't start when I was three.
Professionally, I've been doing some Python,
some C, some otherwise for 20 odd years,
writing software for embedded systems, doing DevOps work,
and at the moment doing dot engineering work
with I guess in the American sense,
you'd call a mortgage provider in South Africa.
It's my current employer.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Lukasz, welcome back.
- Hi, I'm the core developer in residence for CPython.
So actually getting money from the Python Software Foundation
to help develop Python.
Just yesterday we released six simultaneous versions
of Python at the same time, which I think is a record.
So I mostly do that.
I don't program for 40 years.
I'm 37 at the moment.
Still maintaining 37 because my birthday's March,
so approaching quickly.
- Hang in there.
Don't let 38 get you.
- Yes, I'm not almost 40, I'm 37.
- Awesome, well congratulations on all the great work.
I know you've done a ton of work to keep CPI--
- Thank you.
There seems to be more and more to do actually.
So just looking at 3.11.1 that we released yesterday,
it had almost 500 comments since 3.11.0,
which is kind of unprecedented as a rate of change.
So we have so much velocity right now
that I have never seen before, so a lot of change.
- Amazing.
to Nidbatch Elder on another podcast that we were doing
we'll come out before this one.
And we looked, the change log for CPython is 175,000 words.
A typical novel is 80,000.
So that's a lot.
That's nuts.
Cecil, always good to have you on the show.
Welcome back.
- Sure, thanks for having me.
Everyone, I'm Cecil Philip, developer advocate at Stripe.
I will not tell you how old I am,
but I will tell you that my programming gray beard
is just starting to come in.
So not fully there yet, but I'm still working on it.
I primarily been doing a lot of.NET stuff,
some Python stuff, recently started playing around with Go.
Maybe we'll talk about that in
the midst of this conversation as well.
But other than that, as an advocate,
I spent a lot of time doing video
and going to conferences and doing demos and stuff.
So I feel like my job is to learn stuff to an extent.
There's a lot of that that happens and
So yeah, I kind of have a lot of fun doing it both, you know, for work and, you know,
outside of work.
Yeah, that sounds like a great job.
Emily, welcome back.
Hi there.
I'm Emily Morehouse.
I'm the director of engineering at a company called Cuddle Soft.
We are a kind of digital product consultancy focusing on, you know, user experience for
full stack applications, but we also get into some of the nitty gritty stuff.
So we kind of do that full spectrum DevOps, firmware, middleware development,
web applications, all the way through design.
So I get to touch a lot of different pieces of technology.
A lot of my work is in Python, but not all of it.
I write a lot of Ruby, a lot of JavaScript, kind of across the spectrum.
So I get to kind of see how different ecosystems handle
open source, which is really interesting
because I feel like the JavaScript world
is very different from the Python world
than the Ruby world and kind of down that stack.
So yeah, that's me.
- So this topic is right down, right near Wheelhouse.
And I think also the consulting side,
the agency side is interesting
because you work with one group
and you say, "Here's what we recommend for you."
Oh, another group has another company has a different set of software skills.
So you might recommend something different in that case.
Right. Yeah, absolutely.
And our the technical expertise that our clients come with is very wide reaching.
Right. So some people are completely non-technical, don't want to touch it, don't want to know anything about it to, you know, very technical teams.
We're kind of coming in as a specific partner on a specific piece of their tech that they are eventually going to take over.
And there's a lot more, you know,
kind of risk management for this, right?
Like we can't build something for a client
but then we're gonna say, you know,
your library isn't supported in six months.
So it also gives us a chance to start fresh a lot, right?
Like most of our projects are greenfield.
So we do get to say, hey, look,
like we've been doing our due diligence
on this new framework or this new library
or whatever it is.
And we think that this is a really good place
for you to be and get a chance to like actually build something with a new
library more so than like convincing, you know,
a company to rewrite their Django application in something else.
Right. You also were the chair of PyCon. Is that the right title?
Yeah. I forgot to mention that I'm the, I'm the recovering chair,
chair, chair emeritus now. Yeah. Yeah. So I was going to ask,
I'm sure there is.
You're not overseeing 2023, are you?
No.
I'm--
Just get to attend.
--taking a break.
Yep.
Fantastic.
All right, well, thanks for that.
Dan, welcome to the show.
Thanks.
I'm Dan Gerlank.
I've been doing software development professionally
for about 20 years, to some degree.
More in one capacity or another, I'm
currently the director of engineering
for the data science and ML engineering team at Ampersand,
which probably the simplest way to think of it,
it's kind of like a brokerage for television advertising.
And prior to that, I actually ran my own consulting shop
for a decent amount of time.
So I've worked on that agency side a bit
and also started my career in quant finance.
So I've worked across a wide range of things.
And I'm pretty involved with the Asara project
these days on the open source side.
And also do a bit of teaching on the side.
I've taught on O'Reilly about pandas and different things
from time to time.
So I try to--
>>Victor: Teaching is always a great way
to learn these technologies a little bit deeper as well.
>>Tom: For sure.
and you definitely learn it for real
when you go out to teach it.
- The fear of having to stand in front of a bunch of people
and not know the answer will motivate you.
(laughing)
- That's right.
- I guess conference speaking kind of works that way,
but it's not as back and forth as well.
All right, so let's kick off this conversation
with maybe a story from some of you.
So I wanted to start with just maybe a story
how you've chosen some tech stack or some database
or some new framework, a lot of leeway in the scope there.
But whoever wants to jump in, just give us a story
of something you've sort of gone down that path recently.
- Well, I'll jump in and talk a little bit about
the strategy of how I choose to learn stuff.
And I think it's important that you have a learning
or a choice strategy, at least for me,
because there's just so much stuff to play with
and there's only so many hours in the day.
And so you always have to be surgical with your time
about what you choose to do.
And so one of the things for me is,
again, I don't build production applications
and I think that's an important thing to note.
So everyone else's perspective
might be a little bit different.
But most of the apps that I'm building,
I'm beta testing stuff, I'm creating things for other folks,
doing proof of concepts with companies and stuff like that.
So now when you think about the things that I have to learn,
I usually have to learn things to like,
get it to work for a little bit,
and then I'll walk away and I'll go do something else.
Right?
Like, I don't learn it with the perspective
of I have to maintain it over a long period of time.
Now that is not important that I do it the right way,
but again, you know,
the perspective is just a little bit different.
So for me, one of the things that I often try to do is,
you know, try to find the thing that like,
I'm really interested in doing,
or like the thing that'll be useful at work,
and try and plug those things together, right?
And try and see how we can find some symmetry there.
And so an example would be like,
one of the things I'm playing with right now
is open telemetry, right?
Now I don't work for an open telemetry company
and that's not a thing that we have libraries
or extensions for, but at the same time too,
we think about as we're building apps,
inspection is an important thing, right?
And being able to give folks guidance is an important thing.
And so when people come to me as an advocate
and ask questions, I might not have to know everything
in detail, but I try and know things enough so that I can at least have an opinion and
have a conversation about it, you know, be able to speak intelligently about it, even
though I might not know like all the knobs and whistles and like dials I have to turn
to like get the thing to work.
You know, one of the things that I think would be really important for that role is really
carefully tracking where's the momentum in frameworks.
Maybe it's not the most important or wide, widely used thing at the moment, but in six
a little bit of the Gretzky quote,
where is this thing going?
And what is the advice you're gonna give to people?
- Yeah, I agree with that.
And that also, again, kind of goes into the strategy, right?
Of like, what am I learning this thing for?
You know what I mean?
Like, am I learning it to, again,
like am I learning it specifically to, you know,
achieve like a particular personal goal?
Is there something that I'm trying to fix?
Am I trying to like explore technology
so I could pick and choose the thing that I wanna do, right?
Like, what exactly am I learning this thing?
Am I learning it to teach it to someone else?
Right, like, no, that's a completely different perspective
as you're trying to figure out,
well, how do I kind of zone into the thing
that I'm trying to do?
- Yeah, excellent.
- Cam, I was thinking about you, man.
- Yeah, I was just gonna add something
to what Cecil was saying there.
One of the important things that you point out
that you often end up doing is maybe helping people
select a framework or a piece of tech stack
or something to use.
And the kind of thing that always,
that used to strike a lot of the teams I've worked on,
and I certainly was guilty as anybody else,
is spending a heck of a lot of time
going back and forth thinking,
well, we could use this one, or we could use this one,
and let's try this one,
or we'll take three days to try this one,
and then next week we'll take three days to try that one.
And ultimately, if somebody's paying you to write software,
it's kind of an important lesson to remember
that ultimately you have to pick something
and it'll be good enough.
Your job isn't actually to pick the right thing
and spend a month on it.
There are other things that are paying you to do.
So one of the important things
to feed into tech stack selection
is basically if it's good enough, that's fine.
If it's not good enough, then obviously it must go.
And it's useful to have somebody like Cecil
to be able to tell you if it's good enough.
But we can make the mistake of seeking out kind of perfect.
And you're like, is there absolutely anything wrong with us?
Now we'll use this one.
Let's try that one instead, or maybe it will be better.
And three weeks later, and they're saying to you,
why haven't you made the deadline?
Ah, but we have the perfect tool.
We haven't used it yet.
It's taken us a month to find that,
but we have the perfect tool now.
- Yeah, that's an easy trap to fall into.
- It is, and I think a lot of people probably fall into it
and you gotta decide, is this a one-way door
or a two-way door?
Is it the gate at the exit of the airport?
Like if I make this choice,
how committed am I to this thing?
Because if you try it for a week
and it's not what you thought it would,
you could come back and try something else.
Then why spend three weeks before you even start, right?
You've learned a lot in that quote, failure, right?
- Well, I would even go further and say that
technology choice doesn't really matter that much.
The experience I had with large companies I worked for
was that they often would choose technology
that was utterly boring and kind of not interesting
even at the time when they did choose it,
what became kind of dated very quickly.
And it didn't matter one bit.
Like Facebook was PHP, MySQL and Linux, right?
Only when they already grew, it wasn't really Linux.
It wasn't really MySQL and it wasn't really PHP.
But at that point you already have enough infrastructure
and enough employees and everything
to actually keep it going anyway.
Same with like Instagram that was purchased by Facebook,
but it was Django, right?
and still Django, but it's not really Django.
It doesn't matter.
It brought them to where they are
through it being an established technology
and I would in fact kind of err on the side of boring
because it's going to be there for you going forward.
And that's important, especially if you're choosing
a data store, you want to choose something that you know
you're not going to have to migrate from in a year or two
because that's not something that is a productive
use of your time.
So I'm going to kind of contradict what I'm saying now very often as part of my job and say,
"You shouldn't be an early adopter."
But, well, in case of CPython, you absolutely should, and you should test our alphas and test our betas.
But, you know, you have your CI for that, so it's a safe environment.
Like, don't run 3.12 in production right now.
Do test with it, right?
So this sort of thing.
In Python, yeah, it's already like you can use 3.11.1 just fine.
and it should be okay since we are with our annual release cycle, kind of in sync with
Linux distributions, which are doing testing of a new Python version as part of their release
for October.
So Fedora and Ubuntu test our newest Python.
So it's kind of best tested as it ever was.
But when it comes to your data store, when it comes to your web framework, you know,
something that is extremely new and well we're not sure if it's gonna stay
forever so maybe maybe a kind of a bold choice unless it's like a 10 10x
multiplier of your productivity I would just choose the boring thing.
Well your advice about CPython you know 3.10 versus 3.11 it's not the same as
Django versus FastAPI right it's like the evolution of the thing you could
- Sure. - It always roll back
a little bit, right?
It's a little bit different.
- Oh yes, absolutely.
So it's like, I don't know, Postgres 13, 14,
and so on and so on.
The same time, like, you know, kind of,
obviously technology changes,
and even if we're not talking bugs,
but just plant deprecations,
there might be some disruption
when whether you're, you know,
upgrading to a newer Python version.
Nowadays, much smoother than it was
between Python 2 and Python 3,
so it shouldn't be a big deal.
but it might be a deal, depending on what third-party
libraries you're using.
So yeah, obviously there's considerations for you,
which is why we would like you to test with 3.12
like in your CIs and so on and so on.
- It's already there, just put it as a run target.
- Yes, but you know, when it comes to third-party projects,
I am usually very boring and I was the last person
from my friends to actually adopt VS Code
and the last person to adopt fish.
You know, like I was happily with Bash
and then I switched to ZSH just at the time
when it started being boring, you know,
and I was like, come on, really?
So yeah, like I kind of like my work
to actually not depend on something
that is extremely volatile.
- Yeah, that makes sense.
- Yeah, and I think it goes back
to what Cecil was saying earlier
about needing to have some sort of like framework
for how you make these decisions.
And so I think that it's important to call out
that a lot of times you need a base set of criteria
when you're evaluating a tool, right?
Like, please like check the license,
make sure that you're even allowed to use this thing
for whatever you're doing.
And then a lot of it kind of gets into that risk tolerance
where it sounds like,
Lukasz probably is on like the very stable side of it
versus the leading edge side, you know?
And so you've got to say,
do I care about doing the new and exciting thing?
or should I make the obvious choice
to make sure that I have that long-term stability
that you would get from choosing Django
over FastAPI sort of situation.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Gareth, how about you?
You got some examples of decisions you had to make
as your CTO role?
- I'm just thinking, I'm very much in Lukasz's world
of boring is good.
So you always want to go for the tried and tested.
If it's product, there's a marked difference
between working in production and working in the wider,
in learning mode.
So you've got Cecil's world of pulling the latest stuff,
trying out new technology and playing.
But if you're gonna build a web frame, build a web app,
then it's gonna be hard not to choose Flask
or that Django still, because it's there, it's around.
And at the moment, all my current examples,
so I'm currently at a company called MyEnergy,
we process huge amounts of user data,
and we paid a company to write a platform for us.
And it feels like they just went through NPM
and installed anything they ever wanted all the time.
[LAUGHS]
And now we're unpicking a load--
>>NPM install star, let's go.
>>Yeah, and it feels like they're playing a drinking game
with TypeScript, and this bit's functional,
and this bit's object-orientated.
And so picking technologies, not just picking technologies,
picking paradigms.
So it's TypeScript, that's great, but is it functional?
Is it object-orientated?
Is it procedural?
And the answer is this bit is and this bit isn't,
and this bit's over here, and then we need a typo,
we need an ORM.
So it feels like they pull in the only ORM
that they've seen in a tutorial,
but somebody's written, so we've got type ORM,
which doesn't do migrations, and you're stuck.
And we've got a massive pile of technical debt
on a brand new project, which you're having to unpick
because no one consciously chose the projects.
Or is it... No. In my last...
[crosstalk]
In my last gig, we spent a lot of time
because I've got horror stories about ZOPE.
But we spent a lot of time choosing the right framework
and having the right reasons and put a lot of effort
into writing proof of concepts
because we knew the traffic demands, we knew what we were doing.
and we went Flask and we went certain technologies in AWS,
we went Docker, we went and we just follow this route
through choosing things to be stable and scalable,
not necessarily the latest and greatest,
not necessarily the most cutting edge.
I just wanted to make sure it was,
we could develop on it.
And even then we chose,
badly chose a library 'cause somebody followed tutorial,
we didn't rethink it,
ended up using a REST framework that got deprecated.
So you have to put the effort into choosing the right things
and be okay with going,
I don't care if we're not cutting edge.
We let Cecil be cutting edge
and go and play in his advocate role.
And then once it's in production in other places,
then you use it.
>> Yeah. This distinction between what do you choose
in production and what you choose other places.
Also, it doesn't necessarily have to be just learning, right?
It could be, well, here's some tools
that just pull in data and process it.
But if it's not perfect, the website is not going to go down
and we're not going to lose $1,000 a second
until somebody fixes that type of situation.
It's, oh, somebody's got to fix the ETL.
Well, and I think that's another big part of it is,
in most companies, your job or your function with the company
is not supporting a web framework
or building out features within a web framework.
You're trying to implement whatever business logic
you need beyond that.
So going something tried and true or older
is going to let you do that.
And it may not exactly meet your use case.
But like Lukasz was saying, if you have enough revenue
that that's a problem, if you're Instagram or Facebook,
well, that's a good problem to have.
You can deal with it at that point.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Well, and for you, Dan, the situation
might be a little bit different as well,
being more doing ML type of things.
There's less tried and true, right?
The ML of two years ago is laughed at by the ML of today.
I mean, it's changing so fast, it's
hard to say we're going to pick stable because you give up
a lot by doing that.
Yeah, for sure.
A lot of stuff we worked on.
And I think some of it is that I've
spoken with folks who are building ML companies,
And they're like, yeah, the scale you're operating at
is like 10 times or 100 times anything
we've run for something that's an ML as a service platform.
So we've had to build out some things
where kind of existing frameworks didn't cut it for us.
But it was first, can we actually
use those existing frameworks?
Because we ideally, we're not an ML platform company.
We want to use whatever the framework is.
can because that will get us our job done. Only when we can't do that, do we really need to
go custom and kind of build things out for scale. It's easy to get into thinking like my job is to
put this to work and make this framework as awesome as possible or to get it going just
right. And really it's to deliver functionality to a business, right? That's just a means to an end.
And so, yeah, for sure.
- If I could maybe just a thought on that
that came to me when we were talking about boring.
The other thing that kind of can be very tempting
is if me or I and the team,
I come across a new fantastic tool,
I think this looks great, let's use this.
I've spent half an hour reading a tutorial
as Gareth pointed out,
I know everything there is to know about it.
It must be great.
I'll work it into the project.
We don't touch it, you know, we make it work.
We don't touch it for a week after that.
Then I'm on leave three weeks from now
beach somewhere and it goes wrong, have I bothered to tell the rest of my team how this thing works?
Because I've chosen something that isn't boring, you know, that doesn't fit in with the stuff the
rest of us all know and now there's a huge problem there, so there's, you've got to give a bit of
thought to that as well, you've got to be consistent with the stuff you use. Sometimes as I was
saying in terms of paradigm that there might be shiny toys that don't fit in with the rest of it,
then I'm afraid you've got to leave the shiny toy in behind, unless, I mean for, again we are talking
in the what you're paid to do sense, obviously if it's for your own, of your own bat, shiny toy
- It's a long way away.
- Yeah, yeah.
You gotta think about the team buy-in as well,
if a group's gonna be using it, right?
- So, no, sorry.
We fund development sprints,
and we fund hack days to play with things.
So let's get, if you've got an idea for,
do you fancy using FastAPI,
then let's build a small thing,
and we'll put a small project in,
see how it works, see how it deploys,
but don't bet the farm on it until you're certain about it.
>> Yeah. That's a great way to do it, right?
That's sort of a more structured way to experiment.
So I'll share a quick story with you all here.
Recently, I wanted to rekindle my blogging.
I don't know. Social media and places
are a little scrambled these days,
so I thought it might be a good idea
to have something written as well,
that I can point to.
So I went to make this website.
I thought, just something simple, something marked down,
something static.
And I don't know.
I haven't done that.
My last blog was on WordPress.
I don't want to use WordPress anymore.
I don't want to have a database for my blog that
seems like overkill.
So I'm like, all right, well, what do I do to decide?
So I went out to the community, and I asked, hey,
Thinking about this static website blog thing,
Python tools preferred, but I'm open for anything.
And Kim, I think you even maybe weighed in on this thread.
- I think I did, yeah.
- Yeah, I think you did.
And I got a bunch of different feedback.
And so my solution to sort of exploring this place
where I felt a little unqualified,
I didn't have really much experience with,
was to go out and ask.
And the answer I got back really surprised me.
I thought, well, maybe it's gonna be Pelican
or ghost.
But a bunch of people started saying, Hugo, Hugo,
this thing is Hugo.
It's amazing.
Obviously, there were people saying Pelican and Sphinx
and whatnot.
So I ended up going with Hugo, which
was a bit of a struggle for me to decide,
because it's unbelievably good.
Kim, are you using Hugo as well?
>>Yes, yeah, for a couple of things.
>>It's glorious.
It's so nice for writing, but it's written in Go.
And so it's like, well, can I--
I can't really fix it or tweak it as easily.
But in the end, I decided, you know what?
It's more important to have something that works really,
really good that has got a lot of popular support
than having something that is in a language I'm an expert in.
So I'd kind of like to hear your all's thought.
If you're in that kind of situation,
what's your process?
How do you come to these decisions?
Well, I kind of redesigned my own blog when I kind of got the new job because it's like,
oh, I need to communicate.
So I went through a similar process.
What I ended up doing is, and you know, obviously it's a super empty pattern, but it turned out to be super successful, which is just write your own.
And obviously, everybody writes their own static site generator.
but I'll be honest with you, with Python in 2020 and 2021 and 2022 now, it is so simple
because all the building blocks are there. You're not writing strings of HTML into a
file. All of those building blocks are done for you. And just let me bring up for you
how big my huge site generator is because it's super tiny, but it actually handles everything
I wanted to the extent where I'm using it for a couple of sites right now.
And it's like what?
And it's under 2000 lines of code at the moment, like the entire thing.
So it's not super big and it was growing in time when I was adding new stuff to it.
For example, at first I just did not have RSS at all because I was like, "This thing
is dead.
Nobody needs RSS anymore."
And then a bunch of people just all tell me like, "Hey, why don't you have RSS?"
So I just added it like later on, you know, and it's just what like, oh, we have XML in
the standard library.
And there's actually like, yeah, RSS libraries too.
But like, this is so simple.
You just have like, you know, this one template that you need to output.
So you know, kind of, I did my own thing.
And I can now write on the footer of the site that was generated with Python 3.10.
I should just recreate the virtual and so I'll be able to say 3.11.
But you know, kind of...
- Speed of a cutting edge.
Yeah, but like, so, so, so, so yes, but like, the reason why I actually did this was that
all the notes that you're seeing there, you know, kind of if you like click through the
thing, like they are in fact, like in Markdown in my notes.
So I'm kind of crazy about having notes.
So like I have a lot of them, right?
So I have like thousands of them and they're like all in Markdown and like in a Git repository,
synchronized over to my phone and whatever. So I can always just access them in a plane
or whatever. So those are just tagged #public in the Markdown text and they appear on the
website and it's kind of automatic. So I don't actually have like a CMS for this. I just
have my notes app that I'm using. It's FS notes, it's open source, it works on the Mac.
It's glorious. And it's also on iOS and you just kind of generate HTML out of that.
HTML out of that, which is pretty simple.
And I can automate a bunch of stuff with this,
just kind of custom made, which with Hugo,
I probably could do, but I would have to learn how,
and I already know Python.
So it really took me no time to get this up there.
And it kind of works on a phone, and it's okay.
It's not gonna kind of wow you,
but it's a perfectly functional website.
- Yeah, the audience says,
building your own static site generator
is a great way to learn a lot about the language.
I learned a lot for years maintaining my own.
Choosing static sites is an interesting choice
on its own, right?
The DevOps story is incredibly nice
that you don't have to worry about,
will the database go down?
What kind of problem is it?
It's either gonna be there or it's just not there.
- Not only will the database go down,
the unconsidered problem until you're in the DevOps space
on a non-static site is when your internal department
would like a version of the site they can change the CMS on
to make sure it all looks good
before they rolled it to production.
Now you've got to get database exports
across into a different database,
so you've got to get migrations going,
or you've got to have,
not that I would ever do a thing like this,
but you might have to have two versions of Docker running
in direct production so that you can do a live MySQL,
copy of MySQL files from one to the other.
Hypothetically speaking, you would never do that.
- Of course, of course.
(laughing)
- But it's also unhackable.
That's an interesting.
- There was that, yeah.
- Yeah, the worst thing that could happen
is it could deface, it could get defaced.
I guess somebody could put some JavaScript malware on it
if they took it over,
but it's not open to the little Bobby tables
or denial of service to a large degree, right?
That's a good point.
- Hard to hack, very hard to hack, yes.
(laughing)
- Well, for me, the most important thing
that this literally just runs on the free tier,
like on Netlify and you know, it just.
- Yeah, yeah, mine is on Netlify as well.
And I gotta say, it's really, really,
a really nice thing to do.
All right, so what's the next thing I wanna ask you?
All right, so the next one.
- If I could just, sorry, Michael,
I was just gonna one comment that we were making
about picking a library, something that you pointed out
and that Lukasz was saying as well,
there is something to be seen for making sure
you can fix it if it breaks.
but I think to the large degree depends on how,
or I suppose it depends on several things,
how important the thing is to you,
how quickly you can change it if it does break
and how kind of big the thing is.
It never occurred to me, for example, using Hugo,
it didn't worry me too much that I don't know any Go
and I can't fix it because it's a big enough tool
that I can probably make it do what I want,
but I've got pretty simple needs.
If I was picking a very fast,
something really low level in my previous sea life,
for example, to talk to the flash memory as fast as I can,
I'd probably want to write that because,
or at least know that I can fix the thing I got
because maybe I need to be able to tweak it or otherwise.
So it also depends on what you need the thing for.
How quickly, how much does it matter
whether you can tweak it or not?
So it depends largely on how important
it becomes to your project.
The downside of course,
when you do that decision six months later
and it's super important, now you're stuck.
- Yeah, now you're on the hook.
I'm like you, I didn't know any Go,
or not really, I mean, I've read like a paragraph
of sample code to know what it looks like,
but that's about it.
But for me, it was okay to pick Hugo, that is a Go tool,
because it's not actually running
while you interact with my website, right?
If I was picking a Go alternative to Flask,
that would be a really big consideration,
'cause I'd have to kind of write code and live in it.
Here's the thing, I run on the command line,
and it either makes the static site or it doesn't,
So it's not in the important path of interactions.
- You could swap it out without your website breaking.
The end result will still be up and live on the website
while you're replacing Hugo with something else
if you wanted to.
So that was a consideration there.
- Go down the Lucasroute and try to recreate
the same look and feel.
- Yeah, although unlikely it would break
and not be affixed by more Hugo devs
or like the surface of the application is...
- Yeah, so that brings me to the next thing here is,
when you go to an open source project
and you find it on GitHub,
how much does stuff like this Hugo thing,
it's been forked 7,000 times and has 64,000 stars.
Like, okay, if it breaks, someone else will fix it.
Not my problem.
If it had six stars and it breaks,
it might be my problem if it breaks,
even though it's not my project.
How do you all think about that when you are choosing projects
or, Emily or Cecil, in your cases,
recommending technologies?
Yeah, I think for me--
and this is just my personal opinion--
things like forks and stars are vanity metrics for me.
I don't really care, to be honest with you.
I do care if, hey, one, it solves the problem
I'm trying to deal with.
Can I submit an issue and get relatively,
like within six months,
like someone answered me fairly quickly,
like I don't wanna wait for a week or so.
And you know, are there commits being made?
And even for that too,
like when I say are there commits being made,
you don't need to be making commits
like every day and every hour
or every week or every month.
But if I see that like the last commit
was like five years ago,
I'm like, okay, well, if I have a problem,
I don't know if this is the thing that I need to dump into
because I don't know if I'm gonna be able
to get the support that I need.
- Well, you still might take it,
but then you would have to take it on the assumption
that you might have to write the fix or add the feature.
- Sure, so I'm gonna use you as an example, Michael.
So if you decided to go with Hugo
and there was an issue with Hugo and you don't know Go
and you're like, "Oh shoot, what am I gonna do?"
Now you're gonna be in a position
that you can either learn Go
or you get to swap it out and go with something else, right?
But, you know, like what do you--
- I'd rather rewrite it from scratch than learn Go.
- Well, see--
- Not that I hate Go or anything,
I just like, you know, I think thinking of just a time effort
or a trade off, you know?
- Yeah, so it's mainly just about like, how do we,
you know, like, does it solve the thing that I wanna solve?
And then can I get like some level of support,
you know, like questions answered
and documentation and stuff like that.
- Yeah, so when I looked at this, you know, commit,
last commit yesterday.
There's a bunch of issues, but if you look at say,
the closed ones, there were issues closed
a couple hours ago.
Pull requests, I suspect probably,
those are linked together, right?
So there's clearly the life in this project.
And to me, that probably is enough.
How about the rest of you?
Emily, what do you think?
- Yeah, I totally agree.
I think these are exactly the things that I look at is,
you know, are things getting updated or commits getting in?
you know, if it hasn't had a commit in a year or two,
sometimes that's still okay, right?
Like sometimes you're looking at
Django reset password library that like,
yeah, it's just, it's continued to work over time
and you don't necessarily need new features added
to a reset password kind of thing.
So knowing kind of what you're looking at
and what you need out of it, I think is still important,
but I totally agree, you know, forks and stars,
even downloads are kind of vanity metrics.
I also think that something else that I always look at is,
what is the audience of the tool?
Hugo is very much geared towards a community of people
building for mass numbers to use it versus a tool that
maybe Lukasz's static site generator is
probably very tuned to the things that he needs to do with it,
that he could opt to open source it,
but it's not going to be a tool for the mass.
We have a visual client.
Just a "mmm."
Knowing what you're getting out of it and knowing what that sort of feature roadmap is going to be,
either it's like, it is at a stable point and it's not going to change,
this is something that is going to be very opinionated for someone's specific use case,
versus like, Hugo is going to continue adding functionality that would serve a broader group of people,
and just using that as part of your metrics for deciding if that tool fits your needs.
- Dan? - One thing that I used to do is
I look if the last comment on the thing, it doesn't need to be super recent, but like,
is the build red or green?
And if it's red, then I'm like, I don't like seeing red in the last comment on the project I want to use.
And often if that would be a critical dependency,
I would in fact just clone it locally
and just try to just build it
and see if tests pass on my end.
And if they do good,
and if I cannot download some dependencies
or like pytest has like 15, you know,
failures or whatever else,
then I'll be like kind of more skeptical now.
Because obviously if you are installing a package
with pip install, unlike with CPAN in the Perl universe,
you run no tests, so you kind of,
the only thing you know is that the files
were put in the right place.
But whether they're gonna work,
well, you're just gonna find out at runtime, I guess.
So yeah, so every now and again,
I would just try to build something
when I actually depend on it.
But you know, that's if it's really critical,
because a lot of the dependencies, yes,
even downloads are a vanity metric because if push comes to shove, I can just vendor
in the dependency and fix it myself.
There's also a project that you have a little involvement with that's got a few downloads,
right?
Yeah.
So when Emily said that it's a vanity metric, my heart was hit right in the middle because
I live by those downloads, man.
It's awesome.
- No, I have never expected this to go so big.
So it's still sometimes I would just sit and drink coffee
and just suddenly think, how did that ever happen?
It's just mind blowing.
- But actually, so I didn't mention it,
but I think that this is a really good example
of a library that is very clear
about what you're getting from it, right?
Like uncompromising code format,
or it's very clear that it's very opinionated
and that a lot of it came from you.
And the joke that I was going to make is like,
you know with Black, even if you need setups.cfg support,
you are not going to be able to just add it
and open a PR and get it merged in.
So again, knowing what you're getting into of,
and I think that a lot of this opens up a conversation
on the other side of this for open source maintainers
of being aware and being cautious and being clear
to your users of what you're putting out there to say,
look, hey, I'm not gonna maintain this.
This is just something that's here.
If you like it, use it, great.
But taking that extra step to make sure
that you're telling people what you are willing
to take on as a maintainer as well.
- Yeah, so like for black maintenance in particular,
The fun thing was that I gathered a team of people
who are maintaining it now.
And I do relatively little these days, honestly.
There's a bunch of people who are super active
and they actually kind of shook me out
of this kind of psychological block to like,
you know, a stable version has to be perfect.
We will never get there.
And over 2021, we churned out a lot of releases
And now, yeah, Black Stable, it's amazing.
So another kind of consideration that you might have when you're looking at a library
or a tool that you might use is, is the boss factor one?
Is there just one stressed guy who just tries to make it work after hours?
Or are there a few people responding on the issues?
Is there more than one person with the keys to the kingdom?
Sometimes if you lose the keys for whatever reason, it's very disruptive.
We had a bunch of libraries like that in the Python world where forks were necessary because
the original maintainers lost interest or life or whatever else.
Things happen.
I cannot really say that I did anything like that.
I planned for it, it mostly happened by accident because I just had nice contributors that
I liked, so I just shared the right access with them and they ended up being very trustworthy.
But a maintainer should do that at some point because you cannot just do everything by yourself,
it's just impossible.
The bus factor is interesting.
There was this guy who had an NPM project, JavaScript project,
who had done some kind of protesting thing,
like swapped out his project to just print stuff infinitely.
And some kind of--
just really frustrated that--
it was ColorJS and FakerJS.
And was really frustrated that companies
were using the project and not paying for it.
was open source under like MIT or something, but you know, that was his take. But then
had a full on breakdown and got arrested for creating bombs in Queens, New York. I mean,
that's an extreme example, but it can happen. It could happen, right? Or, you know, somebody
could just get actually in an accident, or they could have a health crisis, right? Like
there could be a place where it stops. So considering that, well, on the topic of VASFACTOR
for that matter, which I mean, I think, fairly obviously, what it means, just in case anybody
needs a definition, you know, if you're, if you're the guy, if you're the only person
who knows how it works, and you get hit by a bus tomorrow, and you spend four weeks in
hospital in the somewhat sanitized version of the theory, can somebody pick it up after
you? And I think one of the things that does feed into picking tech steps, and tech stacks
and so forth is, is the best factor on the libraries and so forth is quite important.
what's also important is if it's a really complicated, super hard to use library or
something that you need to be an expert in and you have one of those experts, you've certainly made a
bus factor issue there too because now you need that expert to know what he's doing and be around
and not choose to go to another company or be hit by a bus or any of those things. So there's a
consideration there for the complexity of a tool as well. Sometimes it's unavoidable, sometimes
some things that you have to do are complex. But if the tools
are, if you're constantly picking the hardest thing there
is to have hardest, if you're picking the most challenging
thing to use, because it's the most fun, you might want to be
considering that as well. How simple is it for somebody else
to sit down, pick up your work and keep going with the
libraries you've chosen to use is a consideration. You know,
you should probably be keeping in mind as well.
Yeah, sounds like Garrett's projects of this, like, these
hackathons or these group experimental projects might help a little bit to give a little exposure
to just about the new tech rather than somebody figured it out in their corner and then just
added it and everyone else is like, "Great, it works. I love it."
Yeah. One of the things I think is interesting there, just talking about the bus factor,
it makes me think a lot of times when we're learning stuff, we don't often think about
or when we're choosing things, we don't think about the human aspect that's attached to
it, right? Which as technologists is just not a thing that we do. So again, like the
bus factor, right? Like something bad happens to the person and now what do we do now, right?
Like what is the next step, right? Yeah. Another thing that I've noticed a lot, again,
like kind of thinking about like the humanity of learning is a lot of the times people choose
things because the person to their right and their left, the person, the people that are
in their circle of influence are using that thing, right? So I'll give you an example.
So I go to a lot of like senior design showcases at colleges and universities and so on and so forth.
And when I kind of look and I say, oh, well, why did you pick this language?
Or why did you pick this cloud?
Or why did you pick this framework?
It's usually because the people around them are doing it too.
Right.
And the reason that is, is now, hey, if I pick the thing that like Michael is using, or Emily is using, or Kim is using, you know what, I have people that I could go ask the question.
You know what I mean?
So now I'm going to choose that thing,
not because of any technical reason.
I mean, obviously, it has to do the thing I wanted to do.
But the main reason I chose it is because, socially speaking,
I have people that I could go ask the question.
And so now my confidence level in that project
is a little bit higher because of that reason.
Yeah, that's a really good--
really important factor, yeah.
Yeah, I think this hits the nail on the head
because even in Python, a popular programming language
by all standards. We have parts of the standard library that was written by a person and that
person is no longer around. Now we obviously can still, we have access to the code, we
have tests that are passing, we can still maintain the code, we can still mutate it,
we can still make it do different things if we need to. But the one missing piece, which
is sometimes needed and we don't have it anymore, is why certain choices were made originally.
that kind of informs where we should go next.
If something is uncharacteristically convoluted
and you see this and you're like, "Oh, I would simplify this."
After a while of core development, you're like,
"Every time you want this, there is a reason
behind every kind of weird part that you're going to find."
But if there's nobody to ask the question to,
that complicates things a lot.
And we have a bunch of situations like that,
where there's like a stalemate
between a few possible approaches
because we don't really have an opinion
of the original author to go by to kind of make a choice.
- Yeah, that's, that is definitely a challenge.
Gareth, were you trying to jump in there?
- I was gonna say that often as well,
we make decisions because, and it sounds cool,
but actually the best decision you can make around framework or language
is the one your team already knows.
So your default thing should be,
don't change unless there is a really good reason to change
because you introduce--
I've seen companies have gone, "We need to write a thing in Java,"
because the industry does it in Java,
but all they were was Perl and PHP devs.
And so suddenly you have an entire stack that your developers can't maintain.
So it might be the most perfect Java application in history,
but no one you employ can actually do anything to it.
- Going a bit back to Cecil's thought, right?
Keep the humans who've got to deal with it in mind,
not just the technology, yeah?
- Yeah.
- All right, I want to move on to another topic.
I'm getting short on time here.
So maybe I'll throw this first to you, Dan.
So when we were talking about the bus factor,
obviously that's a person who is a maintainer
of an open source project in the context we were seeing,
before or as Kim broadened that to like somebody at the company who has that
expertise. But a really common and big bus factor is a company has a closed
source project and they either go out of business or they get disinterested in
continuing that project and you're in a bad place. So what I wanted to
ask you all is how important do you see the open source side of things versus a
a closed source, like let's say there's some project
for databases, it's twice as good, but it's closed source.
Choose it, not choose it, putting money aside.
I suppose it's free.
- I mean, I guess I'd generally say it's how hard is it
to change out for something else?
- Okay.
- Like, is it Postgres, but 2x as fast Postgres or Postgres?
- Right, or is it Microsoft SQL Server,
but it's still relational and you probably just
migrate that data to Postgres or something.
- Yeah, I think the risk is really if you're using this
and it goes away and then you're stuck.
That is definitely a real risk
and I have seen that happen with companies
that actually had to rewrite their entire code base
'cause they use something proprietary
that then was decided.
- Stalked.
- There's one specifically--
It's not profitable enough, so your project stops.
Exactly. Yeah, this one, it was called QA Studio. It was a finance,
quant finance language, actually by Palantir. And there was a hedge fund I knew that had
fully adopted it. And then they actually made the reverse migration to Python after the fact.
Yeah. How about the rest of you? What do you think?
Well, I was reminded of a kind of somewhat horrifying experience from my own career that
Dan's just reminded me of. I've seen it happen with the third-party software that the company's
bought and then it's no longer available, but the other time I've seen it and it ties into what we
were saying about kind of picking things that the team knows, is I've come across bits of software
where somebody says, well that's the app that Bob wrote 15 years ago using Visual Basic 4
or whatever it is. Nobody knows how to. It doesn't do what we need to do anymore, but we don't have
the source. Even if we did have the source, we don't have a Visual Basic 4 compiler. Nobody
understands it. We don't know how he built it. Bob is long gone. You need Windows 95 to build it. How
do we get that? Well, exactly. All those things add up and at the time, it's not to make you
sound like Bob was an idiot. Bob did what Bob knew. Bob knew Visual Basic 4 and somebody said,
let's turn out a tool as fast as possible and Bob can do it for us today and Bob did and the tool
works and it's fine and you don't think anything about it until you know way down the line and
nobody knows how to maintain the thing so there is a there's an argument to be had for where do
the libraries and so forth you pick if you're not picking things that everybody knows or at least
a huge chunk of you know sooner or later you run out of people who know how to maintain these things
um as I say not through maliciousness just through you know I need it done fast if you ask Bob to do
Bob's going to do it in Visual Basic 4 because that's what Bob knew.
And that's fine.
That might have been a totally decent choice in 1995.
Exactly, yeah.
But it's not in 2022 or now.
And code rots.
It does.
Over time.
So it was the current compiler, but if you don't keep moving it forward,
you get to a point you can't move it forward.
Yeah. Even if the code would work fine in that old platform,
the OS has changed, and it somehow gets a little out of line with that.
>> CPU architectures change, right?
So you have to rebuild at some point and so on and so on.
>> Exactly. >> Yeah, absolutely.
>> That only helps if you kept up with the ability to do that.
You decided 10 years down the line,
now we need to make it run on 64-bit.
>> That's what Visual Basic runtime and WebAssembly is all about.
Let's get going.
What's your thought on this, open source?
My tendency, obviously, is to choose it as the first choice,
But where's the threshold there?
- Yeah, I think that a lot of what we do very much
like lives in that realm of open source.
But for me, I think it really comes down to portability.
If it's something that can be easily swapped out,
then I'm all for it.
But I see this a lot more with like system architectures.
So if you're gonna decide to go with AWS RDS,
like it's post-press, right?
Like you can use the fancy versions and whatnot,
but like under the hood, it's still Postgres
and you can move that wherever you want to.
Whereas like if you're gonna make the decision
to go all in on serverless
and you're gonna write Lambdas,
that's definitely something that you can theoretically
move someplace else,
but that barrier to portability is a lot higher.
So that's kind of where I look at it is
if this thing goes away or for us,
a lot of it's like looking at client budgets, right?
So if this thing costs $10 a month now,
but they decide to up their costs,
and now it's going to cost $1,000 a month,
is that something that our client
is going to be willing to take on
from a financial perspective?
So yeah, there's a lot to it.
Well, and you're also touching on--
yeah, you're sort of touching on another angle that's
interesting as well.
We don't really have time to go into it, unfortunately.
But even if you have an open source thing,
maybe your code is in Python and it's talking to Postgres,
you can get locked into commercial clouds, right?
Like RDS or Lambda, right?
While it might still be running your Python,
like you said, you can't just take it
and run it somewhere else without rethinking
all the little roots of things it's going into
to hook into the other parts of the cloud there.
And that's clearly not something you can take
it's an open source thing and run with it.
So I'll give you the final word on this
and we'll wrap it up.
- Yeah, one way I kind of think about it is,
you know, like there's some things that I care
that they're open source and other things I just don't.
Like as an example, like I use MongoDB randomly.
I've never looked at the source code.
I probably am never going to like,
whether it's open source or not,
when I could see the source code or not, like,
is it important?
I don't know.
Is it the fact that I appreciate that there's community contributions and the discussion
happening?
Maybe that's the important part of the open sourceness that I do care about.
You know what I mean?
When I think about smaller projects, and when I mean smaller projects, I mean like utility
libraries and things of that nature.
A lot of the times I'll find myself like debugging and actually looking in the code because I
might have seen like a weird error message and I'm like, I don't understand what this
means.
let me try and navigate through,
let me get clone it and navigate through it
and see what's happening, right?
In that case, sure, I totally care that it's open source
because I have a problem
and I wanna try and figure it out, right?
So I think it really just depends.
Again, for me more so,
I really appreciate when those utility libraries
that I'm using are open source
so I can figure out what's happening,
but major things like, again, I think about Mongo
or RabbitMQ or Redis or anything like that,
I'm never gonna look at that source code,
you know what I mean?
- Yeah, I'm with you on that.
I appreciate that they're open source,
but I'm not gonna try to change it.
I'll just probably break it.
All right, well, this has been a great conversation.
I'm looking at the notes that we all put together to talk
and we're halfway through it.
We could just keep going and going,
but we don't have so much time.
So what I wanna do is I wanna close out,
Norma asked about editors and cool packages and stuff.
I wanna close this out with a lightning round
on one other thing.
And this final thought is,
how much does it matter that we have
like really beautiful, say, like landing pages?
You know, some of these open source projects
like Vue.js or Tailwind,
they could be, you know,
a high-end marketing budget spent on them.
And even, you know, Poetry in the Python space
has kind of got like a cool little landing page.
So we're top to bottom here.
Final thought, give me a, you know,
a couple of thoughts real quick on this
and then we'll call it a show.
Dan?
I think it definitely helps in terms of getting people involved, but not necessarily a requirement.
And in some cases may mask issues with the underlying library.
Okay.
Like, I mean, the only thing I can think of is like profit kind of, which had a lot of
Facebook.
It was very fancy Facebook marketing, but there's been some, I think like the Zillow
stories and things like that of cases where it wasn't necessarily appropriately used but
was very fancily marketed. So I think it's just can be an entree even
without full evaluation. Right it might actually, maybe the efforts should just be put to the code
or somewhere else. Gareth, what do you think? You've seen the Tailwind CSS site, are you ready
to swap all your stuff over?
All I care about is how quickly I get to a demo of it
and the documentation.
I'm old school, so if it's got a man page, I'm probably happier.
I often find myself looking at them going, "That's great.
I have no idea what it does."
And I think the fancier the landing page,
usually it actually puts me off a bit
because I'm worried that they're putting a lot into it.
Although I pay a lot more in JavaScript at the moment,
they seem to have a lot more fancy landing pages.
You've got to stand out when there's a new library every week.
Yeah.
Jim?
Sure, I'm pretty much with Gareth there.
I mean, it would be hypocritical of me to expect an open source project
to have a pretty page before I can use it,
because frankly, I can't do that.
And that's not reasonable to expect other projects
I might consider using to do that.
The one thing I would agree with Gareth on one thing,
what I want to see basically is as fast as possible,
What is it and how do I use it?
You know, the marketing gump and so forth is all very nice and well written,
but it's less relevant to me.
The only thing I would argue that turns me off immediately on a big project
are ones that go very video heavy without much text.
If you have angled your project towards here's a video to show you everything
you need to know, that's 10 minutes I'm never going to get back
if I decide I don't want to use your library.
I could have read the equivalent text exactly.
I could have read the equivalent text six times in the time it took me to watch your video.
So maybe that's a personal click, but that's the thing I don't like.
If the project's super video heavy, it doesn't work for me, I must say.
Emily, you probably have clients that come with fancy landing pages that
they're going to recommend that you start with.
Yeah, for sure. For me, I think documentation is paramount. And I think that a lot of,
especially in the Python world, there are a lot of pieces of documentation that feel a little bit
antiquated at this point where it is very much generated off of, you know, maybe some doc strings
or, you know, argument types and all that stuff that sometimes it's not the most user-friendly.
So for me, it's like, yeah, I can look at this stuff in the code if I need to. So having something
that, you know, is either a playground, quick start guide, how to use it, that sort of thing
is really important. For the landing pages, I feel like it's not necessary, but I think that when
a tool does a little bit of the work to show how it's differentiated, that helps me, right? So if
I can look at something and go, "All right, I'm going to look at poetry," and they provide some
great examples for why it's faster than this thing, why it walks better than this thing,
and whatever it is, it at least gives me
sort of a starting point for, you know,
why would I use this tool?
Obviously it's all sort of taken with a grain of salt
because each tool is gonna say that, you know,
here are the things that they're best at
and kind of hide the things
that they're maybe not best at.
I also think, you know, as you're sitting here on this page
and you kind of scroll down
and you can see all these sponsors,
I think that that is-- - That does matter, yeah.
- It matters, but it's also something that kind of
can make you raise an eyebrow, right?
So like Vue is great because it's very diverse.
It's not a single large company
that is sort of powering everything.
But I do think that that is something to sort of watch for
is who is driving this and what is the reason why it's here?
- Sure.
- Yeah.
- Cool.
Cecil?
- Yeah, I think like a lot of other folks on this panel,
I am not a designer.
I do appreciate the aesthetics of being able to see things clearly and read them clearly.
I'm not here for all the marketing stuff and the "I'm better because" stuff. I'm usually going to
come in and I'm going to look for that "getting started" button. I'm going to look for that "docs"
button. I'm going to look for the little code sample that I can copy, paste into VS Code and run
kind of thing for the most part.
But then I also recognize the fact
that really nice documentation takes time.
And a lot of open source folks don't always
have the time to create that, right?
Is that a part--
It is a signal.
Yeah, but is that a metric that we judge them by?
You know what I mean?
Yes or no?
I mean, is that fair?
You know what I mean?
You can have a really good project,
but if you don't have the good documentation,
obviously I can't use it the way it's intended to use.
But does that mean that it's not a good project?
I don't know.
So I feel like that's obviously a good opportunity for folks
to contribute and send PRs and things of that nature.
But for me, I'm just going in really quickly to see,
hey, how can I start the thing?
How could I run it, install it, execute it, Docker
compose it, whatever, and then kind of just get going.
All right, Lukasz, you got the final word here.
Sure, well, I don't think you can really
go wrong with an ugly website for a project that
is open source, it very rarely hinders the project.
Just look at Python.org.
I'm being unfair, but in perfect fairness, the last redesign was some 10 years ago or
something.
It doesn't look exactly as flashy as Tailwind or Vue or whatever, but it doesn't really
matter because it does let us...
Oh, PyPI is nice, like Python.org.
- Yeah, and I was going to say, PyPI actually did get that treatment, though.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, like python.org might get updated
at some point as well, but it doesn't hinder us in one bit
because it's a functional Django, in fact, website.
We use it every day, it's nice.
I personally like if there was a designer
that actually sat on the project and made the website work.
There's a bunch of things that until recently
nobody thought about, so all those outdated websites
don't have this, where like dark mode, white mode, looking good on a phone screen or whatever,
those things end up being quite useful to me now.
The job I do, I work with people in different time zones, so every now and again they would
catch me when I'm away from a keyboard.
If I can actually go and check something on the phone, it's very helpful.
It's not always possible or it's at least complicated sometimes when a white background
is going to glare at you at 3 a.m. or whatever.
I appreciate good design.
It's obviously not something I do personally as well, just like everybody else I think
here.
However, there are people that are great at it and I appreciate it when people like this
get contacted and those sorts of websites look good and are functionally better that
way.
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you all for being here.
It's been a great conversation.
Thanks for taking the time and being part of the group.
Cool.
Thanks.
Thanks, everyone.